# Fall 2019 Foundations of Web Design and Development — Final Project

* **Do not edit this file.**  
* **Do not start this project until you have read these instructions carefully.**

## Instructions
You’re building a portfolio-themed web site of your undergraduate work. Ideally, you would use graphic design/photographic/illustration work that you’ve done in the past. However, you have three options if you don’t have these types of materials:

1. Use a friend’s, colleague’s, or family member’s work as the basis for your project.
2. Create a portfolio of an artist’s or designer’s work whom you admire. (They can be alive or deceased.)
3. Produce a portfolio for a fictitious person or entity using open source images.

This web site must be responsive across all digital devices and cannot generate any horizontal scroll bars.

I encourage you to consider both traditional web design elements (navigations on top, 960 pixel widths, etc) and non-traditional elements (navigation elements perhaps on the bottom, non-linear display of content, etc). Experiment!

---

## Before You Begin
1. Log in to GitHub.
2. Fork this repo(sitory). See [this video](http://code-warrior.github.io/tutorials/git/github/forking-and-cloning-at-the-github-web-site/) on how to carry out this step and step `3`.
3. Clone your fork, using either the web site or the GitHub Desktop client.
4. Checkout your personalized branch, the one with your name and GitHub user handle.

---

### File List
1. `README.md` — **Do not** edit
2. `.sass-lint.yml` — **Do not** edit
3. `index.html` — You **must** edit
4. `css/reset.css` — **Do not** edit
5. `sass/style.scss` — You **must** edit
6. `img/` — You **must** edit
7. `js/` — You **may** edit

**Note**: There are `.gitignore` files all across this scaffold. **Do not edit any of them.**

---

## The Rules
* Use as many typefaces as you need, but remember the discussion on fonts from class.
* The typefaces you use must come from [`https://fonts.google.com/`](https://fonts.google.com/).
* Use as many colors as you need, but remember the discussion on color from class. Look to [`https://color.adobe.com/`](https://color.adobe.com/) for ideas.
* No lorem ipsum content; that is, no filler content.
* Only submit files that are required by your project; do not submit working files, such as `.psd`, `.ai`, `.indd`, or `.sketch` files.
* Use lowercase, combined with kebab case, to name folders and files (`do-this` or `do-this.html`); no spaces in folder or file names (`not this`); no camel case (`notThis`); no snake case (`not_this`).
* You may _not_ author _any_ CSS, **only Sass**.
* The Sass files you author _must_ be placed in the included `sass` folder.
* Your Sass must be free from errors, based on the rules in `.sass-lint.yml`.
* All the CSS your Sass generates _must_ be placed in the included `css` folder, starting with `style.css`.
* _Do not_ alter `reset.css`.
* _Do not_ alter any of the `.gitignore` files.
* _All_ HTML files must go in the root of this folder, with the `index.html` file acting as the springboard for your site.
* Ensure the images you use observe consistent ratios.
* All images must be placed in the `img` folder and _must_ be 1MB _or_ smaller.
* JavaScript and/or jQuery files _must_ go in the `js` folder. If you’re not using either language, then you may remove the `js` folder.
* Your project must be a multi-page site consisting of at least three pages: `about`, `contact`, `gallery/portfolio`.
* Every page in your site must respond to desktop, tablet, and phone devices.
* Your site’s design and UI must be logical, clear, and easy to use.

---

## Questions to Consider
* What is the trend in pages that display similar content? How far can my design stray from that trend without affecting user experience (UX) negatively?
* Is the contrast between type and (back) ground balanced sufficiently to make reading easy? If not, can I justify why?
* Which typeface will help me to get my meaning across? If using more than one typeface, does each complement each other, and do they work harmoniously with the overall design?
* Is the space I use around content helping the user consume my design, or is it making her/him work hard at understanding my intentions?
* Which sections of the content are most important?
* What should be emphasized?
* Does the color scheme complement the message I’m trying to convey, or is it simply serving an aesthetic role in my design?
* Is my design communicating what I need it to?
* Is my site easy to navigate?

---

## Validate
Make sure Atom continually reports `No errors were found!` in the lower left hand corner and that your Sass is validating according to the rules in `.sass-lint.yml`. Solve validation issues and Sass rules violations as you work — don’t let them accumulate.

---

## Due
11:00 AM on Wednesday, 18 December 2019.

---

## Submission
You will need to issue a pull request back into the original repo, the one from which your fork was created. See the **Issuing Pull Requests** section of [this site](http://code-warrior.github.io/tutorials/git/github/index.html) for help on how to submit your assignment.

**Note**: This assignment may *only* be submitted via GitHub. **No other form of submission will be accepted**.

---

## Grading
| Item                                                                            | Points |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------:|
| *HTML is W3C-compliant*                                                         | `20`   |
| *Sass is organized and logical*                                                 | `20`   |
| *Designs reflect elements of quality design concepts, based on course lectures* | `30`   |
| *Rules outlined above followed correctly*                                       | `30`   |
